RHDEVDOCS-4170 Pipelines 1.8 Release Notes (#49137)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-release-notes-1-8.adoc

// Chmouel Boudjnah

* With this update, you can install and run a Tekton Hub instance with minimal configuration. This way, you can start working with your teams to decide which additional customizations they might want.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2250[SRVKP-2250 Install Hub with default configs])
// Shiv Verma

* Getting notifications if you add a duplicate repository. With this update, as a developer, you get a notification from the `tkn-pac` CLI tool if you try to add a duplicate repository to a {pac} run. When you use`tkn pac repo create`, each repository must have a unique URL. This notification also helps prevent hijacking exploits.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1758[SRVKP-1758 Pipeline as code: validate repository URL uniqueness])
// Shivam Mukhade

* Using a custom database with Tekton Hub. With this update, as an administrator, you can configure your local Tekton Hub instance to use a custom database rather than the default database.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2309[SRVKP-2309 Pipeline as code: validate repository URL uniqueness])
// Puneet Punamiya

> * Automatically refreshing the Tekton Hub catalog and database. With this update, as a cluster administrator, if you enable your local Tekton Hub instance, it has a default cron job that periodically refreshes the database so that changes in the catalog appear in the Tekton Hub web console. You can adjust the period between refreshes.

Reviewer: its not cron job, its a built-in functionality inside code

Author: Thanks, updated.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

* With this update, you can add the `-o name` flag to the `tkn pipeline start` command to print the name of the pipeline run right after it starts.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1540[(#1540)]
// Chmouel Boudjnah @chmouel

* This updates adds the list of available plugins to the `tkn --help` command.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1535[(#1535)]
// Chmouel Boudjnah @chmouel

* With this update, while deleting a pipeline run or task run, you can use both the `--keep` and `--keep-since` flags together.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1533[(#1533)]
// Divyanshu Agrawal @divyansh42

* With this update, you can use the `spec.status` value, `Cancelled`, instead of the deprecated `PipelineRunCancelled` status.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1554[(#1554)]
// Vinamra Jain @vinamra28

[id="operator-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== Operator

// [Hub]
* With this update, as an administrator, you can configure your local Tekton Hub instance to use a custom database rather than the default database.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2309[SRVKP-2309 Pipeline as code: validate repository URL uniqueness])

> // Puneet Punamiya

Author: @PuneetPunamiya Please review and approve. Thanks.

* With this update, as a cluster administrator, if you enable your local Tekton Hub instance, it periodically refreshes the database so that changes in the catalog appear in the Tekton Hub web console. You can adjust the period between refreshes.
+
Previously, to add the tasks and pipelines in the catalog to the database, you performed that task manually or set up a cron job to do it for you.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2252[SRVKP-2252 Refresh catalogs on schedule])

> // Puneet Punamiya

Author: @PuneetPunamiya Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 2: This feature is new and looks good to me 👍🏻

* With this update, you can install and run a Tekton Hub instance with minimal configuration. This way, you can start working with your teams to decide which additional customizations they might want.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2250[SRVKP-2250 Install Hub with default configs])

> // Shiv Verma

Author: Shiv, please review and approve.

Reviewer 2: This looks good as well, thanks

Reviewer 3: Looks good to me, thank you.

// [Chains]
* Previously, the `chains-config` config map for {tekton-chains} in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace was automatically reset to default after upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator. The current update fixes this issue. Now, you can configure key-value pairs in the `chains-config` config map, and those values persist after upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2349

> // Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

Author: @piyush-garg Please review and approve.

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/49137/files#r947640359

* This update adds `GIT_SSL_CAINFO` to the `git-clone` task so you can clone secured repositories.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1423

> // @savitaashture

Reviewer 5: @rolfedh lgtm :+1:

In addition to the fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.8.

=== Pipelines

:FeatureName: Running {pipelines-title} on ARM hardware
* {FeatureName} With this update, you can run {pipelines-title} GA 1.8 and later on an OpenShift Container Platform cluster that is running on ARM hardware.
+
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

* With this update, as a developer, you can add your Git repository to {pac} by using the webhook mechanism. This way, you can use {pac} even when using GitHub Apps is not feasible. This capability includes support for repositories on GitHub, GitLab, and BitBucket.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2137[SRVKP-2137 Pipeline as code - CLI add repository via webhooks])
// Shivam Mukhade

> * Previously, as a developer, you could run only one pipeline run from your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull-request. With this update, you can run all the pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory that match specified events. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs. If you are using WebVCS, the reports include comments.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Previously, as a developer, you could run only one pipeline run from your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull-request. With this update, you can run all the pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory that match specified events. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs. If you are using WebVCS, the reports include comments.
```
`run one pipeline run` -- is this correct?

Author: Thanks. I revised this to "having a pipeline run."

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4739

* With this update, the graceful termination of pipeline runs feature is promoted from being a beta feature to being a stable feature. As a result, the previously deprecated `PipelineRunCancelled` status remains deprecated and is planned to be removed in a future release.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4668

* With this update, you can specify the workspace for a pipeline task by using the name of the workspace. This change makes it easier to specify a shared workspace for a pair of `Pipeline` and `PipelineTask` resources. You can also continue to map workspaces explicitly.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4887

* With this update, parameters in embedded specifications are propagated without mutations.
//https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4845

* With this update, you can specify the required metadata of a `Task` resource referenced by a `PipelineRun` resource by using annotations and labels. This way, `Task` metadata that depends on the execution context is available during the pipeline run.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4834

> * This update adds support for object or dictionary types in `params`  and `results` values. This change affects backward compatibilities and sometimes breaks forward compatibility, such as using an earlier client with a later {pipelines-title} version.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* This update adds support for object or dictionary types in `params`  and `results` values. This change affects backward compatibility and sometimes breaks forward compatibility, such as using an earlier client with a later {pipelines-title} version.
```

Author: Thanks. Updated.

> Action required: This update changes the `ArrayOrStruct` structure, which affects the project using the go API as a library.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Action required: This update changes the `ArrayOrStruct` structure, which affects projects that use the Go language API as a library.
```

Author: Thanks. Updated.

// TBD what action?
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4786

* This update adds a `SkippingReason` value to the `SkippedTasks` field of the `PipelineRun` status fields so that users know why a given PipelineTask was skipped.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4829

> * As an alpha feature, this update supports using an `array` type for emitting results from a `Task` object. The type of the result is changed from `string` to `ArrayOrString`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* As an alpha feature, this update supports using an `array` type for emitting results from a `Task` object. The type of the result is changed from `string` to `ArrayOrString`.
```
- Antecedent issue with the opening phrase -- makes it sound like `this update` is an `alpha feature`.
-

Author: Good catch. Thanks. Updated.

+
A task can specify a type to produce an array result, such as:

> +

Reviewer 6: It seems odd to me to include sample code and procedural steps in a list of features in the RNs. Is there a different place your could put this proc and sample?

Author: It's a bit odd to me, too. But it seems to be an established pattern in the Pipelines release notes. This might be the only documentation available until the feature is properly documented in 4.11-async.

[source,yaml]
----
kind: Task
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: write-array
  annotations:
    description: |
      A simple task that writes array
spec:
  results:
    - name: array-results
      type: array
      description: The array results
...
----
+
And the task script can populate the result in an array form with:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo -n "[\"hello\",\"world\"]" | tee $(results.array-results.path)
----
+

> This feature is part of the TEP-0076 and is in progress to index into the array result while consuming that result.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This feature is in progress and is part of TEP-0076.
```
This part of the sentence doesn't make sense to me as constructed: `the feature to index into the array result while consuming that result` -- how can you index INTO a result?  Could you seek clarification? Or is it enough to just cut out that part?

Author: Thanks. I've applied your suggestion.

* This update transitions the `TriggerGroups` field in the `EventListener` specification from being an alpha feature to being a stable feature. Using this field, you can specify a set of interceptors before selecting and running a group of triggers. It is available by default, and you do not need to change the configuration to use it.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/pull/1345(#1345)
// @dlorenc

* With this update, the `Trigger` resource supports end-to-end secure connections by running the `ClusterInterceptor` server using HTTPS.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/1333(#1333)
// @savitaashture

[id="cli-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== CLI

* With this update, you can use the `tkn taskrun export` command to export a live task run from a cluster to a YAML file, which you can use to import the task run to another cluster.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1531[(#1531)]
// Chmouel Boudjnah @chmouel

* With this update, you can add the `-o name` flag to the `tkn pipeline start` command to print the name of the pipeline run right after it starts.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1540[(#1540)]
// Chmouel Boudjnah @chmouel

> * This updates adds the list of available plugins to the `tkn --help` command.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* This update adds the list of available plugins to the `tkn --help` command.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1535[(#1535)]
// Chmouel Boudjnah @chmouel

* With this update, while deleting a pipeline run or task run, you can use both the `--keep` and `--keep-since` flags together.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1533[(#1533)]
// Divyanshu Agrawal @divyansh42

> * With this update, you can use the `spec.status` value, `Cancelled`, instead of the deprecated `PipelineRunCancelled` status.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can use `Cancelled` for the `spec.status` value instead of the deprecated `PipelineRunCancelled` value.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2349
// Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

* This update adds `GIT_SSL_CAINFO` to the `git-clone` task so you can clone secured repositories.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1423
// @savitaashture

[id="hub-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== Hub

* With this update, you can disable the login and rating features of your {tekton-hub} web console. To do so, omit adding a value for the `AUTH_BASE_URL` field in the `<tekton_hub_repository>/config/02-api/20-api-secret.yaml` file.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/hub/pull/542
// Shiv Pratap Verma @pratap0007

* With this update, you don't need to log in to the {tekton-hub} web console to add resources from the catalog to the database. Now, these resources are automatically added when the catalog refresh API runs.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/hub/pull/510
// Shiv Pratap Verma @pratap0007

* This update automatically refreshes the catalog every 30 minutes by calling the catalog refresh API job. This interval is user-configurable.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/hub/pull/547

> // Shiv Pratap Verma @pratap0007

Author: Hi Shiv (@pratap0007). Please review and approve these release notes. Thanks!

Reviewer 4: looks good

Reviewer 3: @rolfedh lgtm

[id="breaking-changes-1-8_{context}"]
== Breaking changes

// .Pipelines

* This update changes the the default metrics level of `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` resources to the following values:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: config-observability
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: default
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: tekton-pipelines
data:
  _example: |
  ...
    metrics.taskrun.level: "task"
    metrics.taskrun.duration-type: "histogram"
    metrics.pipelinerun.level: "pipeline"
    metrics.pipelinerun.duration-type: "histogram"
----
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4630

* With this update, if an annotation or label is present in both `Pipeline` and `PipelineRun` resources, the value in the `Run` type takes precedence. The same is true if an annotation or label is present in `Task` and `TaskRun` resources.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4638
// Vincent Demeester

> * In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the previously deprecated `PipelineRun.Spec.ServiceAccountNames` field has been removed. Action required: Use the `PipelineRun.Spec.TaskRunSpecs` field instead.

Reviewer 6: I assume you're using `Action required:` as an internal note to yourself?

Author: Removed three instances of `Action required:`. Thanks.

In addition to the fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.8.

=== Pipelines

:FeatureName: Running {pipelines-title} on ARM hardware

> * {FeatureName} With this update, you can run {pipelines-title} GA 1.8 and later on an OpenShift Container Platform cluster that is running on ARM hardware. This includes support for `ClusterTask` resources and the `tkn` CLI tool.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* {FeatureName} With this update, you can run {pipelines-title} GA 1.8 and later on an {product-title} cluster that is running on ARM hardware. This includes support for `ClusterTask` resources and the `tkn` CLI tool.
```

+
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
// Shubham Minglani

* With this update, as a developer, you can add your Git repository to {pac} by using the webhook mechanism. This way, you can use {pac} even when using GitHub Apps is not feasible. This capability includes support for repositories on GitHub, GitLab, and BitBucket.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2137[SRVKP-2137 Pipeline as code - CLI add repository via webhooks])
// Shivam Mukhade

> * Previously, as a developer, you could have only one pipeline run in your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull request. With this update, you can have all the pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory that match specified events. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs. If you are using WebVCS, the reports include comments.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Previously, as a developer, you could have only one pipeline run in your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull request. With this update, you can have all the pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory match specified events. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs. If you are using WebVCS, the reports include comments.
```

// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1781[SRVKP-1781 Multiple Pipelines runs match on events])
// Chmouel Boudjnah

> * With this update, as a developer, you get a notification from the `tkn-pac` CLI tool if you try to add a duplicate repository to a {pac} run. When you use `tkn pac repo create`, each repository must have a unique URL. This notification also helps prevent hijacking exploits.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, as a developer, you get a notification from the `tkn-pac` CLI tool if you try to add a duplicate repository to a {pac} run. When you run `tkn pac repo create`, each repository must have a unique URL. This notification also helps prevent hijacking exploits.
```

// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1758[SRVKP-1758 Pipeline as code: validate repository URL uniqueness])
// Shivam Mukhade

* This update implements `Step` and `Sidecar` overrides for `TaskRun` resources.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4598

* This update adds minimal `TaskRun` and `Run` statuses within `PipelineRun` statuses.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4739

> * With this update, the graceful termination of pipeline runs feature is promoted from being a beta feature to being a stable feature. As a result, the previously deprecated `PipelineRunCancelled` status remains deprecated and is planned to be removed in a future release.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, the graceful termination of pipeline runs feature is promoted from a beta feature to a stable feature. As a result, the previously deprecated `PipelineRunCancelled` status remains deprecated and is planned to be removed in a future release.
```

// TBD what action must the user take?
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4786

* This update adds a `SkippingReason` value to the `SkippedTasks` field of the `PipelineRun` status fields so that users know why a given PipelineTask was skipped.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4829

* This update supports an alpha feature in which you can use an `array` type for emitting results from a `Task` object. The result type is changed from `string` to `ArrayOrString`. For example, a task can specify a type to produce an array result:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: Task
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: write-array
  annotations:
    description: |
      A simple task that writes array
spec:
  results:
    - name: array-results
      type: array
      description: The array results
...
----
+

> And the task script can populate the result in an array form with:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Additionally, the task script can populate the result in an array form with:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo -n "[\"hello\",\"world\"]" | tee $(results.array-results.path)
----
+
This feature is in progress and is part of TEP-0076.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4818

[id="triggers-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== Triggers

> * This update transitions the `TriggerGroups` field in the `EventListener` specification from being an alpha feature to being a stable feature. Using this field, you can specify a set of interceptors before selecting and running a group of triggers. It is available by default, and you no longer need to change the configuration to use it.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* This update transitions the `TriggerGroups` field in the `EventListener` specification from an alpha feature to a stable feature. Using this field, you can specify a set of interceptors before selecting and running a group of triggers. It is available by default, and you no longer need to change the configuration to use it.
```

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/pull/1345(#1345)
// @dlorenc

* With this update, the `Trigger` resource supports end-to-end secure connections by running the `ClusterInterceptor` server using HTTPS.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/1333(#1333)
// @savitaashture

[id="cli-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== CLI

* With this update, you can use the `tkn taskrun export` command to export a live task run from a cluster to a YAML file, which you can use to import the task run to another cluster.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1531[(#1531)]
// Chmouel Boudjnah @chmouel

* With this update, you can add the `-o name` flag to the `tkn pipeline start` command to print the name of the pipeline run right after it starts.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1540[(#1540)]
// Chmouel Boudjnah @chmouel

> * This update adds a list of available plugins to the output of the `tkn --help` command.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* This update adds a list of available plug-ins to the output of the `tkn --help` command.
```
Per ISG - use `plug-in` and not `plugin`

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1535[(#1535)]
// Chmouel Boudjnah @chmouel

* With this update, while deleting a pipeline run or task run, you can use both the `--keep` and `--keep-since` flags together.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1533[(#1533)]
// Divyanshu Agrawal @divyansh42

> * With this update, you can use `Cancelled` as the value of the `spec.status` field instead of the deprecated `PipelineRunCancelled` value.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can use `Cancelled` as the value of the `spec.status` field rather than the deprecated `PipelineRunCancelled` value.
```
Per Vale - Use `rather than` rather than `instead of`

Author: Lol: I don't know where that Vale rule came from.  It's not present in any of our style guides. I'll have to follow up in with the Vale team.

[id="operator-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== Operator

// [Hub]
* With this update, as an administrator, you can configure your local {tekton-hub} instance to use a custom database rather than the default database.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2309[SRVKP-2309 Pipeline as code: validate repository URL uniqueness])
// Puneet Punamiya

* With this update, as a cluster administrator, if you enable your local {tekton-hub} instance, it periodically refreshes the database so that changes in the catalog appear in the {tekton-hub} web console. You can adjust the period between refreshes.
+
Previously, to add the tasks and pipelines in the catalog to the database, you performed that task manually or set up a cron job to do it for you.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2252[SRVKP-2252 Refresh catalogs on schedule])
// Puneet Punamiya

* With this update, you can install and run a {tekton-hub} instance with minimal configuration. This way, you can start working with your teams to decide which additional customizations they might want.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2250[SRVKP-2250 Install Hub with default configs])
// Shiv Verma

// [Chains]

> * Previously, the `chains-config` config map for {tekton-chains} in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace was automatically reset to default after upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator. The current update fixes this issue. Now, you can configure key-value pairs in the `chains-config` config map, and those values persist after upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Previously, the `chains-config` config map for {tekton-chains} in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace was automatically reset to default after upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator. While this remains the case since updating the config map directly is not supported when installed via the {pipelines-title} Operator, with this update, you can configure {tekton-chains} by using the `TektonChain` custom resource. This feature enables your configuration to persist across upgrades, unlike the `chains-config` config map, which gets overwritten during upgrades.
```

> * The `chains-config` config map for {tekton-chains} in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace is automatically reset to default after upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator because directly updating the config map is not supported when installed by using the {pipelines-title} Operator. However, with this update, you can configure {tekton-chains} by using the `TektonChain` custom resource. This feature enables your configuration to persist across upgrades, unlike the `chains-config` config map, which gets overwritten during upgrades.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* The `chains-config` config map for {tekton-chains} in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace is automatically reset to default after upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator because directly updating the config map is not supported when installed by using the {pipelines-title} Operator. However, with this update, you can configure {tekton-chains} by using the `TektonChain` custom resource. This feature enables your configuration to persist after upgrading, unlike the `chains-config` config map, which gets overwritten during upgrades.
```

// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2349
// Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

* This update adds `GIT_SSL_CAINFO` to the `git-clone` task so you can clone secured repositories.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1423
// @savitaashture

[id="hub-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== Hub

> * With this update, you can disable the login and rating features of your {tekton-hub} web console. To do so, omit adding a value for the `AUTH_BASE_URL` field in the `<tekton_hub_repository>/config/03-ui/30-ui-configmap.yaml` file.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// https://github.com/tektoncd/hub/pull/542
// Shiv Pratap Verma @pratap0007

> * With this update, you don't need to log in to the {tekton-hub} web console to add resources from the catalog to the database. Now, these resources are automatically added when the catalog refresh API runs.

Author: > resources are automatically added when api start running first time

Which API?

> * With this update, you don't need to log in to the {tekton-hub} web console to add resources from the catalog to the database. Now, these resources are automatically added when the catalog refresh API runs.

Reviewer 3: Hub Api server  , sorry for wrong word

> * With this update, you don't need to log in to the {tekton-hub} web console to add resources from the catalog to the database. Now, these resources are automatically added when the catalog refresh API runs.

Author: No worries. Updated.

> * With this update, you don't need to log in to the {tekton-hub} web console to add resources from the catalog to the database. Now, these resources are automatically added when the API starts running for the first time.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, you no longer need to log in to the {tekton-hub} web console to add resources from the catalog to the database. Now, these resources are automatically added when the API starts running for the first time.
```
Remove contraction

// https://github.com/tektoncd/hub/pull/510
// Shiv Pratap Verma @pratap0007

* This update automatically refreshes the catalog every 30 minutes by calling the catalog refresh API job. This interval is user-configurable.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/hub/pull/547
// Shiv Pratap Verma @pratap0007

[id="pac-new-features-1-8_{context}"]

> === {pac}

Reviewer 5: i think similar to other component `{}` is not needed for pac

```suggestion
=== pac
```

// {pac} owners: Shivam Mukhade Savita Ashture

:FeatureName: {pac} (PAC)
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> * {pipelines-title} 1.7.x shipped with {pac} 0.5.x. The current update ships with {pac} 0.10.x. This change creates a new route in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace for the new controller. You must update this route in GitHub Apps or webhooks that use {pac}. To fetch the route, use the following command:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* {pipelines-title} 1.7.x shipped with {pac} 0.5.x. The current update ships with {pac} 0.10.x. This change creates a new route in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace for the new controller. You must update this route in GitHub Apps or webhooks that use {pac}. 

To fetch the route, use the following command:
```

Should we add a line before saying `To fetch the route, use the following command:` :thinking:

Author: It's not necessary to do so. In release notes, we prefer a more compact format.

+
[source,terminal]
----
oc get -n openshift-pipelines pipelines-as-code-controller  --template='https://{{ .spec.host }}'
----
// no link

* With this update, {pac} supports GitLab integration with features such as the following:
** ACL (Access Control List) on project or group
** `/ok-to-test` support from allowed users
** `/retest` support.
//For more information, https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openshift-pipelines/pipelines-as-code/pkg/provider/gitlab#section-readme
// no link

> * With this update, you can perform advanced pipeline filtering with Common Expression Language (CEL). With CEL, you can match pipeline runs with different Git provider events through special annotations in the `PipelineRun` resource. For example:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can perform advanced pipeline filtering with Common Expression Language (CEL). With CEL, you can match pipeline runs with different Git provider events by using special annotations in the `PipelineRun` resource. For example:
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

+
[source,yaml]
----
  ...
  annotations:
     pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
      event == "pull_request" && target_branch == "main" && source_branch == "wip"
----
// no link

* With this update, {pac} supports multiple pipeline runs on the same event. The pipeline runs operate in parallel and report back to the Git provider interface.
// no link

* With this update, you can rerun a pipeline run by commenting `/test` or `/retest` on a pull request. You can also specify the pipeline run by name. For example, by entering `/test <pipelinerun_name>` or  `/retest <pipelinerun-name>`
// no link

> * This update adds a new webhook validator to ensure only one {pac} repository is created by one git repository URL.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* This update adds a new webhook validator to ensure only one {pac} repository is created by one Git repository URL.
```
Capitalize `Git`

// no link

* With this update, you can delete a repository custom resource and its associated secrets by using the new `tkn-pac repo delete` command.
// no link

* With this update, you can use the new `tkn-pac setup-webhook cli` command to set up a webhook with a repository hosted by a Git provider such as GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket Cloud.
// no link

[id="chains-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== Chains

:FeatureName: Tekton Chains
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> * With this update, you can log in to a vault by using OIDC instead of a static token. This change means that Spire can generate the OIDC credential so that only trusted workloads are allowed to log in to the vault. Additionally, you can pass the vault address as a configuration value rather than inject it as an environment variable.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can log in to a vault by using OIDC rather than a static token. This change means that Spire can generate the OIDC credential so that only trusted workloads are allowed to log in to the vault. Additionally, you can pass the vault address as a configuration value rather than inject it as an environment variable.
```
Per Vale - Use `rather than` rather than `instead of`

In addition to the fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.8.

[id="pipelines-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== Pipelines

:FeatureName: Running {pipelines-title} on ARM hardware

> * {FeatureName} With this update, you can run {pipelines-title} GA 1.8 and later on an {product-title} cluster that is running on ARM hardware. This includes support for `ClusterTask` resources and the `tkn` CLI tool.

Reviewer 4: @rolfedh we need to add one known issue to ARM support:
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2375 i.e. the `jib-maven` cluster task is known not to work on ARM based clusters.

Author: Added ARM and replaced this short known issue with the verbose one from the 1.7 release notes:

* When you run Maven and Jib-Maven cluster tasks, the default container image is supported only on Intel (x86) architecture. Therefore, tasks will fail on ARM, IBM Power Systems (ppc64le), IBM Z, and LinuxONE (s390x) clusters. As a workaround, you can specify a custom image by setting the `MAVEN_IMAGE` parameter value to `maven:3.6.3-adoptopenjdk-11`.
// issue # is unknown.
+
[TIP]
====
Before you install tasks that are based on the Tekton Catalog on ARM, IBM Power Systems (ppc64le), IBM Z, and LinuxONE (s390x) using `tkn hub`, verify if the task can be executed on these platforms. To check if `ppc64le` and `s390x` are listed in the "Platforms" section of the task information, you can run the following command: `tkn hub info task <name>`
// issue # is unknown.
====
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2375 for ARM issue

> * {FeatureName} With this update, you can run {pipelines-title} GA 1.8 and later on an {product-title} cluster that is running on ARM hardware. This includes support for `ClusterTask` resources and the `tkn` CLI tool.

Author: The `include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]` statement on line 21 pulls in a prominent explanation of what Tech Preview ([shown here](https://rolfedh.github.io/previews/RHDEVDOCS-4172/cicd/pipelines/op-release-notes.html#pipelines)) means, including: 
```
Running Red Hat OpenShift Pipelines on ARM hardware is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/.
```

> * {FeatureName} With this update, you can run {pipelines-title} GA 1.8 and later on an {product-title} cluster that is running on ARM hardware. This includes support for `ClusterTask` resources and the `tkn` CLI tool.

Author: @vdemeester Is that enough, or if not, how would you rephrase the release note?

> * {FeatureName} With this update, you can run {pipelines-title} GA 1.8 and later on an {product-title} cluster that is running on ARM hardware. This includes support for `ClusterTask` resources and the `tkn` CLI tool.

Reviewer 7: ah right, that make sense then, this notice address my concern 👍🏼

+
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
// Shubham Minglani

> * With this update, as a developer, you can add your Git repository to {pac} by using the webhook mechanism. This way, you can use {pac} even when using GitHub Apps is not feasible. This capability includes support for repositories on GitHub, GitLab, and BitBucket.

Reviewer 8: this is Pipelines as Code feature shall we move it to Pipelines as Code section?

Author: Thanks. Moved it to the `=== {pac}` section and combined it with a duplicate entry. Now, this reads as follows:

* With this update, as a developer, you can use the new `tkn-pac setup-webhook cli` command to add a Git repository to {pac} by using the webhook mechanism. This way, you can use {pac} even when using GitHub Apps is not feasible. This capability includes support for repositories on GitHub, GitLab, and BitBucket.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2137[SRVKP-2137 Pipeline as code - CLI add repository via webhooks])
// Shivam Mukhade

// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2137[SRVKP-2137 Pipeline as code - CLI add repository via webhooks])
// Shivam Mukhade

> * Previously, as a developer, you could have only one pipeline run in your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull request. With this update, you can have all the pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory match specified events. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs. If you are using WebVCS, the reports include comments.

Reviewer 8: here `WebVCS` means the web git platform? eg github UI?

> * Previously, as a developer, you could have only one pipeline run in your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull request. With this update, you can have all the pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory match specified events. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs. If you are using WebVCS, the reports include comments.

Reviewer 8: this is Pipelines as Code feature shall we move it to Pipelines as Code section?

> * Previously, as a developer, you could have only one pipeline run in your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull request. With this update, you can have all the pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory match specified events. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs. If you are using WebVCS, the reports include comments.

Author: Moved it to the `=== {pac}` section. Thanks!

> * Previously, as a developer, you could have only one pipeline run in your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull request. With this update, you can have all the pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory match specified events. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs. If you are using WebVCS, the reports include comments.

Author: > here `WebVCS` means the web git platform? eg github UI?

Updated this statement to say:
`The web console displays the status and reports of the runs, and the reports include comments.`
Thanks!

// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1781[SRVKP-1781 Multiple Pipelines runs match on events])
// Chmouel Boudjnah

> * With this update, as a developer, you get a notification from the `tkn-pac` CLI tool if you try to add a duplicate repository to a {pac} run. When you enter `tkn pac repo create`, each repository must have a unique URL. This notification also helps prevent hijacking exploits.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* With this update, as a developer, you get a notification from the `tkn-pac` CLI tool if you try to add a duplicate repository to a {pac} run. When you enter `tkn pac create repository`, each repository must have a unique URL. This notification also helps prevent hijacking exploits.
```

Reviewer 8: this is Pipelines as Code feature shall we move it to Pipelines as Code section?

Author: @sm43 Are you sure about the new syntax you're proposing. We have it documented differently here: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/modules/op-pipelines-as-code-command-reference.adoc#repository

Author: Moved this to the PAC section.

Author: Removed the following release note as a duplicate:
* This update adds a new webhook validator to ensure only one {pac} repository is created by one Git repository URL.
// no link

// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1758[SRVKP-1758 Pipeline as code: validate repository URL uniqueness])
// Shivam Mukhade

* This update implements `Step` and `Sidecar` overrides for `TaskRun` resources.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4598

* This update adds minimal `TaskRun` and `Run` statuses within `PipelineRun` statuses.

> // link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4739

Reviewer 7: Note: this is under the alpha api feature flag.

Author: Added 
```
+
To enable this feature, in the `TektonConfig` custom resource definition, in the `pipeline` section, you must set the `enable-api-fields` field to `alpha`.
```

* With this update, the graceful termination of pipeline runs feature is promoted from a beta feature to a stable feature. As a result, the previously deprecated `PipelineRunCancelled` status remains deprecated and is planned to be removed in a future release.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4668

* With this update, you can specify the workspace for a pipeline task by using the name of the workspace. This change makes it easier to specify a shared workspace for a pair of `Pipeline` and `PipelineTask` resources. You can also continue to map workspaces explicitly.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4887

> * With this update, parameters in embedded specifications are propagated without mutations.

Reviewer 7: Note: this is under the alpha api feature flag.

Author: Added 
```
+
To enable this feature, in the `TektonConfig` custom resource definition, in the `pipeline` section, you must set the `enable-api-fields` field to `alpha`.
```

> //https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4845

Reviewer 7: Should this have the `link:` ?

Author: Updated. Thanks. (Currently, we don't publish these links for customers to see.)

** `/ok-to-test` support from allowed users
** `/retest` support.
//For more information, https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openshift-pipelines/pipelines-as-code/pkg/provider/gitlab#section-readme
// no link

* With this update, you can perform advanced pipeline filtering with Common Expression Language (CEL). With CEL, you can match pipeline runs with different Git provider events by using annotations in the `PipelineRun` resource. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  ...
  annotations:
     pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
      event == "pull_request" && target_branch == "main" && source_branch == "wip"
----
// no link

* With this update, {pac} supports multiple pipeline runs on the same event. The pipeline runs operate in parallel and report back to the Git provider interface.
// no link

* With this update, you can test or retest a pipeline run by commenting `/test` or `/retest` on a pull request. You can also specify the pipeline run by name. For example, by entering `/test <pipelinerun_name>` or  `/retest <pipelinerun-name>`
// no link

* This update adds a new webhook validator to ensure only one {pac} repository is created by one Git repository URL.
// no link

> * With this update, you can delete a repository custom resource and its associated secrets by using the new `tkn-pac repo delete` command.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can delete a repository custom resource and its associated secrets by using the new `tkn-pac delete repository ` command.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// no link

> * With this update, you can use the new `tkn-pac setup-webhook cli` command to set up a webhook with a repository hosted by a Git provider such as GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket Cloud.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can use the new `tkn-pac setup cli` command to set up a webhook with a repository hosted by a Git provider such as GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket Cloud.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4638
// Vincent Demeester

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the previously deprecated `PipelineRun.Spec.ServiceAccountNames` field has been removed. Use the `PipelineRun.Spec.TaskRunSpecs` field instead.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4988

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the previously deprecated `TaskRun.Status.ResourceResults.ResourceRef` field has been removed. Use the `TaskRun.Status.ResourceResults.ResourceName` field instead.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4977

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the previously deprecated `Conditions` resource type has been removed. Remove the `Conditions` resource from `Pipeline` resource definitions that include it. Use `when` expressions in `PipelineRun` definitions instead.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4942

// .Chains

* For Tekton Chains, the `tekton-provenance` format has been removed in this release. Use the `in-toto` format by setting `"artifacts.taskrun.format": "in-toto"` in the `TektonChain` custom resource instead.
// no link
// Shubham Minglani

// .{pac}

> * {pipelines-title} 1.7.x shipped with {pac} 0.5.x. The current update ships with {pac} 0.10.x. This change creates a new route in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace for the new controller. You must update this route in GitHub Apps or webhooks that use {pac}. To fetch the route, use the following command:

Reviewer 8: just want to confirm is it okay to write version as `0.5.x` or shall we provide a exact one?

Author: This is the correct representation.

+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc get -n openshift-pipelines pipelines-as-code-controller  --template='https://{{ .spec.host }}'

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
oc get route -n openshift-pipelines pipelines-as-code-controller  --template='https://{{ .spec.host }}'
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

[id="chains-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== Tekton Chains

:FeatureName: Tekton Chains
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

* With this update, you can log in to a vault by using OIDC rather than a static token. This change means that Spire can generate the OIDC credential so that only trusted workloads are allowed to log in to the vault. Additionally, you can pass the vault address as a configuration value rather than inject it as an environment variable.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/chains/pull/369
// Brandon Mitchell @sudo-bmitch or Shubham Minglani

* The `chains-config` config map for {tekton-chains} in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace is automatically reset to default after upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator because directly updating the config map is not supported when installed by using the {pipelines-title} Operator. However, with this update, you can configure {tekton-chains} by using the `TektonChain` custom resource. This feature enables your configuration to persist after upgrading, unlike the `chains-config` config map, which gets overwritten during upgrades.
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2349
// Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

> * This update adds `GIT_SSL_CAINFO` to the `git-clone` task so you can clone secured repositories.

Reviewer 9: why is this in Chains category?

Author: Moved it to the Operator category. Thanks.

In addition to the fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.8.

[id="pipelines-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== Pipelines

:FeatureName: Running {pipelines-title} on ARM hardware

> * {FeatureName} With this update, you can run {pipelines-title} GA 1.8 and later on an {product-title} cluster that is running on ARM hardware. This includes support for `ClusterTask` resources and the `tkn` CLI tool.

Reviewer 6: There's an issue rendering this text in the preview build. Not sure what's going on:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/86380613/185698204-d200a6a9-ee45-4e05-a3bf-ea74e46ec06a.png)

Author: Updated. Thanks.

* With this update, you can log in to a vault by using OIDC rather than a static token. This change means that Spire can generate the OIDC credential so that only trusted workloads are allowed to log in to the vault. Additionally, you can pass the vault address as a configuration value rather than inject it as an environment variable.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/chains/pull/369
// Brandon Mitchell @sudo-bmitch or Shubham Minglani

* The `chains-config` config map for {tekton-chains} in the `openshift-pipelines` namespace is automatically reset to default after upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator because directly updating the config map is not supported when installed by using the {pipelines-title} Operator. However, with this update, you can configure {tekton-chains} by using the `TektonChain` custom resource. This feature enables your configuration to persist after upgrading, unlike the `chains-config` config map, which gets overwritten during upgrades.
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2349
// Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

[id="tekton-hub-new-features-1-8_{context}"]
=== {tekton-hub}

:FeatureName: {tekton-hub}
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we please add one more point under this section

* Support for external databases
  * With this update, as an administrator, you can configure your local {tekton-hub} instance to use a custom database rather than the default database. To do so user needs to create a secret with name `tekton-hub-db` as
```yaml

apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: tekton-hub-db
  labels:
    app: tekton-hub-db
type: Opaque
stringData:
  POSTGRES_HOST: <The name of the host of the database>
  POSTGRES_DB: <Name of the database>
  POSTGRES_USER: <The name of user account>
  POSTGRES_PASSWORD: <The password of user account>
  POSTGRES_PORT: <The port that the database is listening on>
```
  **NOTE** :- User specified PostgreSQL database version 13 is only supported

Author: I have created https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-4377 to address this comment.

> * With this update, you can disable the login and rating features of your {tekton-hub} web console. To do so, do not add a value for the `AUTH_BASE_URL` field in the `<tekton_hub_repository>/config/03-ui/30-ui-configmap.yaml` file.

Reviewer 10: The instructions might be somewhat confusing here. Could we change it to "update configmap X and remove key Y"?

Author: I have created https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-4376 to address this issue.

** ACL (Access Control List) on project or group
** `/ok-to-test` support from allowed users
** `/retest` support.
//For more information, https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openshift-pipelines/pipelines-as-code/pkg/provider/gitlab#section-readme
// no link

* With this update, you can perform advanced pipeline filtering with Common Expression Language (CEL). With CEL, you can match pipeline runs with different Git provider events by using annotations in the `PipelineRun` resource. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  ...
  annotations:
     pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
      event == "pull_request" && target_branch == "main" && source_branch == "wip"
----
// no link

* Previously, as a developer, you could have only one pipeline run in your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull request. With this update, you can have multiple pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs. The pipeline runs operate in parallel and report back to the Git provider interface.
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1781[SRVKP-1781 Multiple Pipelines runs match on events])
// Chmouel Boudjnah

> * With this update, you can test or retest a pipeline run by commenting `/test` or `/retest` on a pull request. You can also specify the pipeline run by name. For example, by entering `/test <pipelinerun_name>` or  `/retest <pipelinerun-name>`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can test or retest a pipeline run by commenting `/test` or `/retest` on a pull request. You can also specify the pipeline run by name. For example, by entering `/test <pipelinerun_name>` or  `/retest <pipelinerun-name>`
```
The last bit here is a sentence fragment. Please fix

Author: Updated. Thank you.

// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2137[SRVKP-2137 Pipeline as code - CLI add repository via webhooks])
// Shivam Mukhade

* With this update, {pac} supports GitLab integration with features such as the following:
** ACL (Access Control List) on project or group
** `/ok-to-test` support from allowed users
** `/retest` support.
//For more information, https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openshift-pipelines/pipelines-as-code/pkg/provider/gitlab#section-readme
// no link

* With this update, you can perform advanced pipeline filtering with Common Expression Language (CEL). With CEL, you can match pipeline runs with different Git provider events by using annotations in the `PipelineRun` resource. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  ...
  annotations:
     pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
      event == "pull_request" && target_branch == "main" && source_branch == "wip"
----
// no link

> * Previously, as a developer, you could have only one pipeline run in your `.tekton` directory for each Git event, such as a pull request. With this update, you can have multiple pipeline runs in your `.tekton` directory. The web console displays the status and reports of the runs, and the reports include comments.

Reviewer 8: this point and the point below`With this update, {pac} supports multiple pipeline...` are same 
we can merge them 
something like below
```
Previously, as a developer, you could have only one pipeline run in your .tekton directory for each Git event, such as a 
pull request. With this update, you can have multiple pipeline runs in your .tekton directory. The web console displays the
status and reports of the runs. The pipeline runs operate in parallel and report back to the Git provider interface.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
oc get -n openshift-pipelines pipelines-as-code-controller  --template='https://{{ .spec.host }}'
----
// no link

* With this update, {pac} supports GitLab integration with features such as the following:
** ACL (Access Control List) on project or group
** `/ok-to-test` support from allowed users
** `/retest` support.
//For more information, https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/openshift-pipelines/pipelines-as-code/pkg/provider/gitlab#section-readme
// no link

* With this update, you can perform advanced pipeline filtering with Common Expression Language (CEL). With CEL, you can match pipeline runs with different Git provider events through special annotations in the `PipelineRun` resource. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
  ...
  annotations:
     pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
      event == "pull_request" && target_branch == "main" && source_branch == "wip"
----
// no link

* With this update, {pac} supports multiple pipeline runs on the same event. The pipeline runs operate in parallel and report back to the Git provider interface.
// no link

> * With this update, you can rerun a pipeline run by commenting `/test` or `/retest` on a pull request. You can also specify the pipeline run by name. For example, by entering `/test <pipelinerun_name>` or  `/retest <pipelinerun-name>`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can re-run a pipeline run by commenting `/test` or `/retest` on a pull request. You can also specify the pipeline run by name. For example, by entering `/test <pipelinerun_name>` or  `/retest <pipelinerun-name>`
```
Might be better to rephrase so that you can avoid saying `re-run a ... run`

Author: Good point. Went with "you can test or retest..."

====
//  (link:https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/pull/1103[#1103])

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `PipelineResource` custom resource (CR) is available but no longer supported. The `PipelineResource` CR was a Tech Preview feature and part of the `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API, which had been deprecated and planned to be removed in the upcoming {pipelines-title} GA 1.9 release.

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `Condition` custom resource (CR) is removed. The `Condition` CR was part of the `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API, which has been deprecated and is planned to be removed in the upcoming {pipelines-title} GA 1.9 release.

> * In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `gcr.io` image for `gsutil` has been removed. This removal might be a breaking change for some clusters with `Pipeline` resources that depend on this image. Bug fixes and support are provided only through the end of the {pipelines-title} 1.7 lifecycle.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `gcr.io` image for `gsutil` has been removed. This removal might break clusters with `Pipeline` resources that depend on this image. Bug fixes and support are provided only through the end of the {pipelines-title} 1.7 lifecycle.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// As an alternative to <name_of_capability_or_feature>, you can use <alternative_capability_or_feature_if_available> instead.
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1539
// Shivam Mukhade

// .Pipelines

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `PipelineRun.Status.TaskRuns` and `PipelineRun.Status.Runs` fields are deprecated and are planned to be removed in a future release. See link:https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0100-embedded-taskruns-and-runs-status-in-pipelineruns.md[TEP-0100: Embedded TaskRuns and Runs Status in PipelineRuns].

> * In {pipelines-title} 1.8, `pipelineRunCancelled` state is deprecated and planned to be be removed in {pipelines-title} 1.9. Graceful termination of `PipelineRun` objects is now a stable feature and is no longer behind alpha feature flag. See link:https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0058-graceful-pipeline-run-termination.md[TEP-0058: Graceful Pipeline Run Termination]. You can use the `Cancelled` state, which replaces the `pipelineRunCancelled` state.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `pipelineRunCancelled` state is deprecated and planned to be be removed in {pipelines-title} 1.9. Graceful termination of `PipelineRun` objects is now a stable feature. See link:https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0058-graceful-pipeline-run-termination.md[TEP-0058: Graceful Pipeline Run Termination]. As an alternative, you can use the `Cancelled` state, which replaces the `pipelineRunCancelled` state.
```

Author: Thanks. Updated.

+
This update fixes the issue so that `$params` fetches the complete value. It also throws an error if `<NAME>` is not enclosed in single or double quotes. For example:
+
* `$params.org.ipsum.lorem` is not valid and generates a validation error.
* `$params["org.ipsum.lorem"]` and `$params['org.ipsum.lorem']` are valid and the entire value of `<NAME>`, `org.ipsum.lorem`, is extracted.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4880

// .Triggers

With this update, `Trigger` resources support custom interceptors and ensure that the port of the custom interceptor service is the same as the port in the `ClusterInterceptor` definition file.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/pull/1383[(#1383)]
// @savitaashture

// .CLI

* Before this update, the `tkn version` command for chains and operator components didn't work correctly. This update fixes the issue so that the command works correctly and returns version information for those components.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1542

> // Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

Author: @piyush-garg Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 11: lgtm

* Before this update, if you ran a `tkn pr delete --ignore-running` command and a pipeline run did not have a `status.condition` value, the `tkn` CLI tool produced a null-pointer error (NPE). This update fixes the issue so that the CLI tool does generate an error and correctly ignores pipeline runs that are still running.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1532

> // PRADEEP KUMAR @pradeepitm12

Author: @pradeepitm12 Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 11: > lgtm

* Before this update, if you used the `tkn pr delete --keep <value>` or `tkn tr delete  --keep <value>` commands, and the number of pipeline runs or task runs was less than the value, the command did not return an error as it should. This update fixes the issue so that the command correctly returns an error under those conditions.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1541

> // Shiv Pratap Verma @pratap0007

Author: @pratap0007 Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 3: @rolfedh lgtm

* Before this update, if you used the `tkn pr delete` or `tkn tr delete` commands with the `-p` or `-t` flags together with the `--ignore-running` flag, the commands incorrectly deleted running or pending resources. This update fixes the issue so that these commands correctly ignore running or pending resources.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1578

> // Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

Author: @piyush-garg Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 11: lgtm

// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1532
// PRADEEP KUMAR @pradeepitm12

* Before this update, if you used the `tkn pr delete --keep <value>` or `tkn tr delete  --keep <value>` commands, and the number of pipeline runs or task runs was less than the value, the command did not return an error as it should. This update fixes the issue so that the command correctly returns an error under those conditions.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1541
// Shiv Pratap Verma @pratap0007

* Before this update, if you used the `tkn pr delete` or `tkn tr delete` commands with the `-p` or `-t` flags together with the `--ignore-running` flag, the commands incorrectly deleted running or pending resources. This update fixes the issue so that these commands correctly ignore running or pending resources.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1578
// Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

// .Operator

* With this update, you can configure {tekton-chains} by using the `TektonChain` custom resource. This feature enables your configuration to persist across upgrades, unlike the `chains-config` config map, which gets overwritten during upgrades.

> // no link provided

Author: Would someone provide a link to the issue? @sm43?

Reviewer 12: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2349

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/tektoncd/operator/pull/955
https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2349

Reviewer 4: this feature was implemented for a bug, so it's both, a bugfix and an enhancement 🙃

* With this update, `ClusterTask` resources no longer run as root by default, except for the `buildah` and `s2i` cluster tasks.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2385

> // Shubham Minglani

Author: Please review and approve, @concaf.

Reviewer 4: lgtm :)

* Before this update, tasks on {pipelines-title} 1.7.1 failed when using `init` as a first argument followed by two or more arguments. With this update, the flags are parsed correctly, and the task runs are successful.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2340 (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes)

> // Vincent Demeester @vdemeester

Author: @vdemeester Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 4: looks good

* Before this update, installation of the {pipelines-title} Operator on {product-title} 4.9 and 4.10 failed due to an invalid role binding, with the following error message:
+
[source,terminal]
----
error updating rolebinding openshift-operators-prometheus-k8s-read-binding: RoleBinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io "openshift-operators-prometheus-k8s-read-binding" is invalid: roleRef: Invalid value: rbac.RoleRef{APIGroup:"rbac.authorization.k8s.io", Kind:"Role", Name:"openshift-operator-read"}: cannot change roleRef
----
+
This update fixes the issue so that the failure no longer occurs.
// (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes) https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2327

> // Khurram Baig

Author: @khrm  Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 4: looks good

* Previously, upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator caused `Pipeline`  objects to fail. This update fixes this issue. During upgrades, the Operator no longer recreates the `pipeline` service account. As a result, secrets attached to the `pipeline` service account persist over upgrades and the `Pipeline` objects continue working correctly.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2256

> // Kushagra Kulshreshtha

Author: @kkulshreshth  Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/49137/files#r947649258

* With this update, {pac} pods run on infrastructure nodes if infrastructure node settings are configured in the `TektonConfig` custom resource (CR).

> // no link provided

Author: Would someone provide a link to the issue? @sm43?

* Previously, with the resource pruner, each namespace Operator created a command that ran in a separate container. This design consumed too many resources in clusters with a high number of namespaces. For example, to run a single command, a cluster with 1000 namespaces produced 1000 containers in a pod.
+
This update fixes the issue. It passes the namespace-based configuration to the job so that all the commands run in one container in a loop. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2160[SRVKP-2160])

> // Pradeep Kumar

Author: @pradeepitm12  Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 11: /lgtm

* In {tekton-chains} you must define a secret called `signing-secrets` to hold the key used for signing tasks and images. However, before this update, updating the {pipelines-title} Operator reset or overwrote this secret and the key was lost. This update fixes the issue. Now, if the secret is configured after installing {tekton-chains} through the Operator, the secret persists, and it is not overwritten by upgrades.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2304

> // Piyush Garg

Author: @piyush-garg  Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 4: looks good

* Before this update, all S2I build tasks failed with an error similar to the following message:
+
----
Error: error writing "0 0 4294967295\n" to /proc/22/uid_map: write /proc/22/uid_map: operation not permitted
time="2022-03-04T09:47:57Z" level=error msg="error writing \"0 0 4294967295\\n\" to /proc/22/uid_map: write /proc/22/uid_map: operation not permitted"
time="2022-03-04T09:47:57Z" level=error msg="(unable to determine exit status)"
----
+
With this update, the `pipelines-scc` security context constraint (SCC) is compatible with the `SETFCAP` capability necessary for S2I and Buildah cluster tasks. As a result, the S2I build tasks run successfully.
+
// (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes) https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2091

> // Piyush Garg

Author: @piyush-garg  Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 4: looks good

* Before this update, installing the {product title} Operator took longer than expected. This update optimizes some settings to make installing the Operator go faster.

> // https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2369

Author: @sm43 Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 4: looks good

* With this update, Buildah and S2I cluster tasks have fewer steps than in previous versions. Some steps have been combined into a single step so they work better with `ResourceQuota` and `LimitRange` objects and do not require more resources than necessary.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2333

> // Rupali Behera

Author: @rupalibehera  Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 12: LGTM

* This update upgrades the Buildah, `tkn` CLI tool, and `skopeo` CLI tool versions in cluster tasks.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2214

> // Vincent Demeester @vdemeester

Author: @vdemeester  Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 4: looks good

*  Before this update, the Operator failed while creating RBAC resources if any of the namespaces were in a "Terminating" state. With this update, the Operator ignores namespaces in a "Terminating" state and creates the RBAC resources.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2248

> // Shivam Mukhade

Author: @sm43  Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 4: looks good

* Before this update, pods for the `tkn` CLI tool and prune jobs were not being scheduled on infrastructure nodes, as expected. Instead, they were being scheduled on worker nodes or not scheduled at all. With this update, these types of pods are being scheduled on infrastructure nodes.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1806

> // Rupali Behera

Author: @rupalibehera  Please review and approve. Thanks.

Reviewer 12: a minor change.

// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1782[#SRVKP-1782])
// Writer, also see https://github.com/tektoncd/operator/blob/main/cmd/openshift/operator/kodata/tekton-addon/addons/02-clustertasks/source_local/s2i-nodejs/s2i-nodejs-task.yaml. Overkill: The user can run the `$ oc edit clustertask s2i-nodejs` command and replace `$(params.VERSION)` with `14-ubi8`. Alternatively, you can use a `TaskRun` resource to set the tag of the `nodejs` image stream to `14-ubi8`.

// .Operator

> * The `s2i-nodejs` image cannot use the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream to perform S2I builds. Doing so produces an `error building at STEP "RUN /usr/libexec/s2i/assemble": exit status 127` message. There is no workaround at this time.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* The `s2i-nodejs` image cannot use the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream to perform S2I builds. Doing so causes the following error message: `error building at STEP "RUN /usr/libexec/s2i/assemble": exit status 127`. There is no workaround for this issue.
```
- Better not imply that there will ever be a workaround.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// borrowed from https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1782
// Pavol Pitoňák

[id="fixed-issues-1-8_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

// .Pipelines

* Before this update, the metrics for pipeline runs in the Developer view of the web console were incomplete and outdated. With this update, the issue has been fixed so that the metrics are correct.
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1789
//  Khurram Baig

> * Before this update, if a pipeline had two parallel tasks that failed and one of them had `retries=2`, the final tasks never ran, and the Pipeline failed from a timeout. For example, the `pipelines-operator-subscription` task failed intermittently with an "Unable to connect to the server: EOF" error. With this update, the issue has been fixed so that the final tasks always run.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if a pipeline had two parallel tasks that failed and one of them had `retries=2`, the final tasks never ran, and the Pipeline timed out and failed to run. For example, the `pipelines-operator-subscription` task failed intermittently with the following error message: `Unable to connect to the server: EOF`. With this update, the issue has been fixed so that the final tasks always run.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1724
// Vincent Demeester

> * Before this update, when a pipeline run was in a "stopping" state, that is, if a task run failed, other task runs might not complete their retries. As a result, no `finally` tasks were scheduled, which caused the pipeline to hang. This update resolves the issue. `TaskRuns` and `Run` objects can retry when a pipeline run has stopped, even by  graceful stopping, so that pipeline runs can complete.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, when a pipeline run was in a "stopping" state, that is, if a task run failed, other task runs might not complete their retries. As a result, no `finally` tasks were scheduled, which caused the pipeline to hang. This update resolves the issue. `TaskRuns` and `Run` objects can retry when a pipeline run has stopped, even by graceful stopping, so that pipeline runs can complete.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4651
// Lee Bernick @lbernick

> * This update changes how resource requirements are calculated when one or more `LimitRange` objects are present in the namespace where a `TaskRun` object is. With this update, the scheduler considers `step` containers and excludes all other app containers, such as sidecar containers, when factoring requests from `LimitRange` objects.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* This update changes how resource requirements are calculated when one or more `LimitRange` objects are present in the namespace where a `TaskRun` object exists. The scheduler now considers `step` containers and excludes all other app containers, such as sidecar containers, when factoring requests from `LimitRange` objects.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/4996
// Simon Kaegi @skaegi

> * Before this update, under specific conditions, the flag package might incorrectly parse a subcommand immediately following a double dash flag terminator, `--`. In that case, it ran the entrypoint subcommand instead of the actual command. This update fixes this flag-parsing issue so that the entrypoint runs the correct command.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, under specific conditions, the flag package might incorrectly parse a subcommand immediately following a double dash flag terminator, `--`. In that case, it ran the `entrypoint` subcommand instead of the actual command. This update fixes this flag-parsing issue so that the `entrypoint` runs the correct command.
```
Should `entrypoint` be in backticks?

Author: Based on a search for "entrypoint" in our docs, I don't think this should have backticks.

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/5095
// Vincent Demeester @vdeemester

> * Before this update, the controller might generate multiple panics if pulling an image failed, or its pull status was incomplete. This update fixes the issue by checking the `step.ImageID` value  instead of the `status.TaskSpec` value.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the controller might generate multiple panics if pulling an image failed, or its pull status was incomplete. This update fixes the issue by checking the `step.ImageID` value instead of the `status.TaskSpec` value.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

+
This update fixes the issue so that `$params` fetches the complete value. It also throws an error if `<NAME>` is not enclosed in single or double quotes. For example:
+
* `$params.org.ipsum.lorem` is not valid and generates a validation error.
* `$params["org.ipsum.lorem"]` and `$params['org.ipsum.lorem']` are valid and the entire value of `<NAME>`, `org.ipsum.lorem`, is extracted.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4880

// .Triggers

With this update, `Trigger` resources support custom interceptors and ensure that the port of the custom interceptor service is the same as the port in the `ClusterInterceptor` definition file.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/pull/1383[(#1383)]
// @savitaashture

// .CLI

* Before this update, the `tkn version` command for {tekton-chains} and Operator components didn't work correctly. This update fixes the issue so that the command works correctly and returns version information for those components.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1542
// Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

> * Before this update, if you ran a `tkn pr delete --ignore-running` command and a pipeline run did not have a `status.condition` value, the `tkn` CLI tool produced a null-pointer error (NPE). This update fixes the issue so that the CLI tool does generate an error and correctly ignores pipeline runs that are still running.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if you ran a `tkn pr delete --ignore-running` command and a pipeline run did not have a `status.condition` value, the `tkn` CLI tool produced a null-pointer error (NPE). This update fixes the issue so that the CLI tool now generates an error and correctly ignores pipeline runs that are still running.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2304
// Piyush Garg

* Before this update, all S2I build tasks failed with an error similar to the following message:
+
----
Error: error writing "0 0 4294967295\n" to /proc/22/uid_map: write /proc/22/uid_map: operation not permitted
time="2022-03-04T09:47:57Z" level=error msg="error writing \"0 0 4294967295\\n\" to /proc/22/uid_map: write /proc/22/uid_map: operation not permitted"
time="2022-03-04T09:47:57Z" level=error msg="(unable to determine exit status)"
----
+
With this update, the `pipelines-scc` security context constraint (SCC) is compatible with the `SETFCAP` capability necessary for S2I and Buildah cluster tasks. As a result, the S2I build tasks run successfully.
+
// (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes) https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2091
// Piyush Garg

> * Before this update, installing the {product title} Operator took longer than expected. This update optimizes some settings to make installing the Operator go faster.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, installing the {product title} Operator took longer than expected. This update optimizes some settings to speed up the installation process.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2369

* With this update, Buildah and S2I cluster tasks have fewer steps than in previous versions. Some steps have been combined into a single step so they work better with `ResourceQuota` and `LimitRange` objects and do not require more resources than necessary.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2333
// Rupali Behera

* This update upgrades the Buildah, `tkn` CLI tool, and `skopeo` CLI tool versions in cluster tasks.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2214
// Vincent Demeester @vdemeester

> *  Before this update, the Operator failed while creating RBAC resources if any of the namespaces were in a "Terminating" state. With this update, the Operator ignores namespaces in a "Terminating" state and creates the RBAC resources.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
*  Before this update, the Operator failed while creating RBAC resources if any of the namespaces were in a `Terminating` state. With this update, the Operator ignores namespaces in a `Terminating` state and creates the RBAC resources.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2248
// Shivam Mukhade

> * Before this update, pods for the `tkn` CLI tool and prune jobs were not being scheduled on infrastructure nodes, as expected. Instead, they were being scheduled on worker nodes or not scheduled at all. With this update, these types of pods are being scheduled on infrastructure nodes.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, pods for the `tkn` CLI tool and prune jobs were not scheduled on infrastructure nodes, as expected. Instead, they were scheduled on worker nodes or not scheduled at all. With this update, these types of pods are now scheduled on infrastructure nodes.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `pipelineRunCancelled` state is deprecated and planned to be be removed in {pipelines-title} 1.9. Graceful termination of `PipelineRun` objects is now promoted from being an alpha feature to being a stable feature. (See link:https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0058-graceful-pipeline-run-termination.md[TEP-0058: Graceful Pipeline Run Termination].) As an alternative, you can use the `Cancelled` state, which replaces the `pipelineRunCancelled` state.
+
You do not need to make changes to your `Pipeline` and `Task` resources. If you have tools that cancel pipeline runs, you must update tools in the next release. This change also affects tools such as the CLI, IDE extensions, and so on, so that they support the new `PipelineRun` statuses.

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `timeout` field in `PipelineRun` has been deprecated. Instead, use the `PipelineRun.Timeouts` field, which is now promoted from being an alpha feature to being a stable feature.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4813

> * In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the init containers are omitted from the `LimitRange` object's default request calculations.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `init` containers are omitted from the `LimitRange` object's default request calculations.
```
Should "init" be in back-ticks?

Author: Updated. Thanks.

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `Condition` custom resource (CR) is removed. The `Condition` CR was part of the `tekton.dev/v1alpha1` API, which has been deprecated and is planned to be removed in the upcoming {pipelines-title} GA 1.9 release.

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `gcr.io` image for `gsutil` has been removed. This removal might break clusters with `Pipeline` resources that depend on this image. Bug fixes and support are provided only through the end of the {pipelines-title} 1.7 lifecycle.
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1539
// Shivam Mukhade

// .Pipelines

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `PipelineRun.Status.TaskRuns` and `PipelineRun.Status.Runs` fields are deprecated and are planned to be removed in a future release. See link:https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0100-embedded-taskruns-and-runs-status-in-pipelineruns.md[TEP-0100: Embedded TaskRuns and Runs Status in PipelineRuns].

> * In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `pipelineRunCancelled` state is deprecated and planned to be be removed in {pipelines-title} 1.9. Graceful termination of `PipelineRun` objects is now promoted from being an alpha feature to being a stable feature. (See link:https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0058-graceful-pipeline-run-termination.md[TEP-0058: Graceful Pipeline Run Termination].) As an alternative, you can use the `Cancelled` state, which replaces the `pipelineRunCancelled` state.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `pipelineRunCancelled` state is deprecated and planned to be be removed in a future release. Graceful termination of `PipelineRun` objects is now promoted from an alpha feature to a stable feature. (See link:https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0058-graceful-pipeline-run-termination.md[TEP-0058: Graceful Pipeline Run Termination].) As an alternative, you can use the `Cancelled` state, which replaces the `pipelineRunCancelled` state.
```
Shouldn't we avoid specifying a version in which it will be removed?

Author: Updated. Thanks.

+
You do not need to make changes to your `Pipeline` and `Task` resources. If you have tools that cancel pipeline runs, you must update tools in the next release. This change also affects tools such as the CLI, IDE extensions, and so on, so that they support the new `PipelineRun` statuses.

> * In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `timeout` field in `PipelineRun` has been deprecated. Instead, use the `PipelineRun.Timeouts` field, which is now promoted from being an alpha feature to being a stable feature.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `timeout` field in `PipelineRun` has been deprecated. Instead, use the `PipelineRun.Timeouts` field, which is now promoted from an alpha feature to a stable feature.
```

time="2022-03-04T09:47:57Z" level=error msg="(unable to determine exit status)"
----
+
With this update, the `pipelines-scc` security context constraint (SCC) is compatible with the `SETFCAP` capability necessary for S2I and Buildah cluster tasks. As a result, the S2I build tasks run successfully.
+
// (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes) https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2091
// Piyush Garg

* Before this update, installing the {product title} Operator took longer than expected. This update optimizes some settings to speed up the installation process.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2369

* With this update, Buildah and S2I cluster tasks have fewer steps than in previous versions. Some steps have been combined into a single step so that they work better with `ResourceQuota` and `LimitRange` objects and do not require more resources than necessary.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2333
// Rupali Behera

* This update upgrades the Buildah, `tkn` CLI tool, and `skopeo` CLI tool versions in cluster tasks.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2214
// Vincent Demeester @vdemeester

> * Before this update, the Operator failed while creating RBAC resources if any of the namespaces were in a `Terminating` state. With this update, the Operator ignores namespaces in a `Terminating` state and creates the RBAC resources.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the Operator failed when creating RBAC resources if any namespace was in a `Terminating` state. With this update, the Operator ignores namespaces in a `Terminating` state and creates the RBAC resources.
```

+
You do not need to make changes to your `Pipeline` and `Task` resources. If you have tools that cancel pipeline runs, you must update tools in the next release. This change also affects tools such as the CLI, IDE extensions, and so on, so that they support the new `PipelineRun` statuses.

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, the `timeout` field in `PipelineRun` has been deprecated. Instead, use the `PipelineRun.Timeouts` field, which is now promoted from an alpha feature to a stable feature.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4813

* In {pipelines-title} 1.8, `init` containers are omitted from the `LimitRange` object's default request calculations.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4769

[id="known-issues-1-8_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * The `s2i-nodejs` pipeline cannot use the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream to perform source-to-image (S2I) builds. Using that image stream produces an `error building at STEP "RUN /usr/libexec/s2i/assemble": exit status 127` message.

Author: @sm43 This release note and the one on line 321 are duplicates, but differ on whether there is a workaround. Which one should we keep?

Author: I'm keeping this one and commenting out the next one, just in case.

+
Workaround: Use `nodejs:14-ubi8` rather than the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream.
// (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1782[#SRVKP-1782])

> // Writer, also see https://github.com/tektoncd/operator/blob/main/cmd/openshift/operator/kodata/tekton-addon/addons/02-clustertasks/source_local/s2i-nodejs/s2i-nodejs-task.yaml. Overkill: The user can run the `$ oc edit clustertask s2i-nodejs` command and replace `$(params.VERSION)` with `14-ubi8`. Alternatively, you can use a `TaskRun` resource to set the tag of the `nodejs` image stream to `14-ubi8`.

Author: @sm43 Do users need these instructions on how to change the image stream?

Author: Leaving them commented out for now. Please let me know if we need to add them.

// .Operator

> * The `s2i-nodejs` image cannot use the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream to perform S2I builds. Doing so causes the following error message: `error building at STEP "RUN /usr/libexec/s2i/assemble": exit status 127`. There is no workaround for this issue.

Author: @sm43 This release note and the one on line 314 are duplicates, but differ on whether there is a workaround. Which one should we keep?

// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2385
// Shubham Minglani

* Before this update, tasks on {pipelines-title} 1.7.1 failed when using `init` as a first argument followed by two or more arguments. With this update, the flags are parsed correctly, and the task runs are successful.
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2340 (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes)
// Vincent Demeester @vdemeester

* Before this update, installation of the {pipelines-title} Operator on {product-title} 4.9 and 4.10 failed due to an invalid role binding, with the following error message:
+
[source,terminal]
----
error updating rolebinding openshift-operators-prometheus-k8s-read-binding: RoleBinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io
"openshift-operators-prometheus-k8s-read-binding" is invalid:
roleRef: Invalid value: rbac.RoleRef{APIGroup:"rbac.authorization.k8s.io", Kind:"Role", Name:"openshift-operator-read"}: cannot change roleRef
----
+
This update fixes the issue so that the failure no longer occurs.
// (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes) https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2327
// Khurram Baig

> * Previously, upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator caused the `pipeline` service account to be recreated, which meant that the secrets linked to the service account were lost. This update fixes the issue. During upgrades, the Operator no longer recreates the `pipeline` service account. As a result, secrets attached to the `pipeline` service account persist after upgrades, and the resources (tasks, pipelines) continue to work correctly.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Previously, upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator caused the `pipeline` service account to be recreated, which meant that the secrets linked to the service account were lost. This update fixes the issue. During upgrades, the Operator no longer recreates the `pipeline` service account. As a result, secrets attached to the `pipeline` service account persist after upgrades, and the resources (tasks and pipelines) continue to work correctly.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// .Operator
* The `s2i-nodejs` image cannot use the `nodejs:14-ubi8-minimal` image stream to perform S2I builds. Doing so causes the following error message: `error building at STEP "RUN /usr/libexec/s2i/assemble": exit status 127`. There is no workaround for this issue.
// borrowed from https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1782
// Pavol Pitoňák

[id="fixed-issues-1-8_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

// .Pipelines

* Before this update, the metrics for pipeline runs in the Developer view of the web console were incomplete and outdated. With this update, the issue has been fixed so that the metrics are correct.
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1789
//  Khurram Baig

* Before this update, if a pipeline had two parallel tasks that failed and one of them had `retries=2`, the final tasks never ran, and the pipeline timed out and failed to run. For example, the `pipelines-operator-subscription` task failed intermittently with the following error message: `Unable to connect to the server: EOF`. With this update, the issue has been fixed so that the final tasks always run.
// link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-1724
// Vincent Demeester

> * Before this update, when a pipeline run was in a "stopping" state, that is, if a task run failed, other task runs might not complete their retries. As a result, no `finally` tasks were scheduled, which caused the pipeline to hang. This update resolves the issue. `TaskRuns` and `Run` objects can retry when a pipeline run has stopped, even by graceful stopping, so that pipeline runs can complete.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, when a pipeline run was in a `stopping` state, that is, if a task run failed, other task runs might not complete their retries. As a result, no `finally` tasks were scheduled, which caused the pipeline to hang. This update resolves the issue. `TaskRuns` and `Run` objects can retry when a pipeline run has stopped, even by graceful stopping, so that pipeline runs can complete.
```
Should "stopping" be in back-ticks or boldface? Not sure if this is a UI element or a CLI or log message, but if it is a UI element, it should be in boldface.

Author: Went with `Before this update, if a pipeline run stopped because a task run failed,`

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4651
// Lee Bernick @lbernick

* This update changes how resource requirements are calculated when one or more `LimitRange` objects are present in the namespace where a `TaskRun` object exists. The scheduler now considers `step` containers and excludes all other app containers, such as sidecar containers, when factoring requests from `LimitRange` objects.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/4996
// Simon Kaegi @skaegi

> * Before this update, under specific conditions, the flag package might incorrectly parse a subcommand immediately following a double dash flag terminator, `--`. In that case, it ran the entrypoint subcommand instead of the actual command. This update fixes this flag-parsing issue so that the entrypoint runs the correct command.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, under specific conditions, the flag package might incorrectly parse a subcommand immediately following a double dash flag terminator, `--`. In that case, it ran the entrypoint subcommand rather than the actual command. This update fixes this flag-parsing issue so that the entrypoint runs the correct command.
```

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/5095
// Vincent Demeester @vdeemester

> * Before this update, the controller might generate multiple panics if pulling an image failed, or its pull status was incomplete. This update fixes the issue by checking the `step.ImageID` value instead of the `status.TaskSpec` value.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the controller might generate multiple panics if pulling an image failed, or its pull status was incomplete. This update fixes the issue by checking the `step.ImageID` value rather than the `status.TaskSpec` value.
```

// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/5295(#5295)
//Andrew Bayer @abayer

* Before this update, if the `<NAME>` in `$params["<NAME>"]` or `$params['<NAME>']` contained a dot character (`.`),  any part of the name to the right of the dot was not extracted. For example, from `$params["org.ipsum.lorem"]`, only `org` was extracted.
+
This update fixes the issue so that `$params` fetches the complete value. It also throws an error if `<NAME>` is not enclosed in single or double quotes. For example:
+
* `$params.org.ipsum.lorem` is not valid and generates a validation error.
* `$params["org.ipsum.lorem"]` and `$params['org.ipsum.lorem']` are valid and the entire value of `<NAME>`, `org.ipsum.lorem`, is extracted.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/4880

// .Triggers

With this update, `Trigger` resources support custom interceptors and ensure that the port of the custom interceptor service is the same as the port in the `ClusterInterceptor` definition file.
// link:https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/pull/1383[(#1383)]
// @savitaashture

// .CLI

> * Before this update, the `tkn version` command for {tekton-chains} and Operator components didn't work correctly. This update fixes the issue so that the command works correctly and returns version information for those components.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the `tkn version` command for {tekton-chains} and Operator components did not work correctly. This update fixes the issue so that the command works correctly and returns version information for those components.
```
Remove contraction

Author: Removed this and other contractions.

// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1542
// Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

* Before this update, if you ran a `tkn pr delete --ignore-running` command and a pipeline run did not have a `status.condition` value, the `tkn` CLI tool produced a null-pointer error (NPE). This update fixes the issue so that the CLI tool now generates an error and correctly ignores pipeline runs that are still running.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1532
// PRADEEP KUMAR @pradeepitm12

> * Before this update, if you used the `tkn pr delete --keep <value>` or `tkn tr delete  --keep <value>` commands, and the number of pipeline runs or task runs was less than the value, the command did not return an error as it should. This update fixes the issue so that the command correctly returns an error under those conditions.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before this update, if you used the `tkn pr delete --keep <value>` or `tkn tr delete  --keep <value>` commands, and the number of pipeline runs or task runs was less than the value, the command did not return an error as expected. This update fixes the issue so that the command correctly returns an error under those conditions.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1541
// Shiv Pratap Verma @pratap0007

* Before this update, if you used the `tkn pr delete` or `tkn tr delete` commands with the `-p` or `-t` flags together with the `--ignore-running` flag, the commands incorrectly deleted running or pending resources. This update fixes the issue so that these commands correctly ignore running or pending resources.
// https://github.com/tektoncd/cli/pull/1578
// Piyush Garg @piyush-garg

// .Operator

> * With this update, you can configure {tekton-chains} by using the `TektonChain` custom resource. This feature enables your configuration to persist across upgrades, unlike the `chains-config` config map, which gets overwritten during upgrades.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can configure {tekton-chains} by using the `TektonChain` custom resource. This feature enables your configuration to persist after upgrading, unlike the `chains-config` config map, which gets overwritten during upgrades.
```

Author: Updated in two places. Thanks.

// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2385
// Shubham Minglani

* Before this update, tasks on {pipelines-title} 1.7.1 failed when using `init` as a first argument followed by two or more arguments. With this update, the flags are parsed correctly, and the task runs are successful.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2340 (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes)
// Vincent Demeester @vdemeester

* Before this update, installation of the {pipelines-title} Operator on {product-title} 4.9 and 4.10 failed due to an invalid role binding, with the following error message:
+
[source,terminal]
----
error updating rolebinding openshift-operators-prometheus-k8s-read-binding: RoleBinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io "openshift-operators-prometheus-k8s-read-binding" is invalid: roleRef: Invalid value: rbac.RoleRef{APIGroup:"rbac.authorization.k8s.io", Kind:"Role", Name:"openshift-operator-read"}: cannot change roleRef
----
+
This update fixes the issue so that the failure no longer occurs.
// (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes) https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2327
// Khurram Baig

> * Previously, upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator caused `Pipeline`  objects to fail. This update fixes this issue. During upgrades, the Operator no longer recreates the `pipeline` service account. As a result, secrets attached to the `pipeline` service account persist over upgrades and the `Pipeline` objects continue working correctly.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Previously, upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator caused the `pipeline` service account to be recreated which meant that the secrets linked to the service account would be lost. This update fixes this issue. During upgrades, the Operator no longer recreates the `pipeline` service account. As a result, secrets attached to the `pipeline` service account persist over upgrades and the resources (tasks, pipelines) continue to work correctly.
```

+
// (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes) https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2091
// Piyush Garg

* Before this update, installing the {product title} Operator took longer than expected. This update optimizes some settings to speed up the installation process.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2369

* With this update, Buildah and S2I cluster tasks have fewer steps than in previous versions. Some steps have been combined into a single step so they work better with `ResourceQuota` and `LimitRange` objects and do not require more resources than necessary.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2333
// Rupali Behera

* This update upgrades the Buildah, `tkn` CLI tool, and `skopeo` CLI tool versions in cluster tasks.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2214
// Vincent Demeester @vdemeester

* Before this update, the Operator failed while creating RBAC resources if any of the namespaces were in a `Terminating` state. With this update, the Operator ignores namespaces in a `Terminating` state and creates the RBAC resources.
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2248
// Shivam Mukhade

> * Before this update, pods for the `tkn` CLI tool and prune jobs were not scheduled on infrastructure nodes, as expected. Instead, they were scheduled on worker nodes or not scheduled at all. With this update, these types of pods are now scheduled on infrastructure nodes.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
* Before this update, pods for the prune cronjobs were not scheduled on infrastructure nodes, as expected. Instead, they were scheduled on worker nodes or not scheduled at all. With this update, these types of pods now can be scheduled on infrastructure nodes if specified in TektonConfig.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// (borrowed from 1.7.2 release notes) https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2327
// Khurram Baig

> * Previously, upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator caused the `pipeline` service account to be recreated, which meant that the secrets linked to the service account were lost. This update fixes the issue. During upgrades, the Operator no longer recreates the `pipeline` service account. As a result, secrets attached to the `pipeline` service account persist over upgrades, and the resources (tasks, pipelines) continue to work correctly.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Previously, upgrading the {pipelines-title} Operator caused the `pipeline` service account to be recreated, which meant that the secrets linked to the service account were lost. This update fixes the issue. During upgrades, the Operator no longer recreates the `pipeline` service account. As a result, secrets attached to the `pipeline` service account persist after upgrades, and the resources (tasks, pipelines) continue to work correctly.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2256
// Kushagra Kulshreshtha

* With this update, {pac} pods run on infrastructure nodes if infrastructure node settings are configured in the `TektonConfig` custom resource (CR).
// https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2217

* Previously, with the resource pruner, each namespace Operator created a command that ran in a separate container. This design consumed too many resources in clusters with a high number of namespaces. For example, to run a single command, a cluster with 1000 namespaces produced 1000 containers in a pod.
+
This update fixes the issue. It passes the namespace-based configuration to the job so that all the commands run in one container in a loop. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/SRVKP-2160[SRVKP-2160])
// Pradeep Kumar

> * In {tekton-chains} you must define a secret called `signing-secrets` to hold the key used for signing tasks and images. However, before this update, updating the {pipelines-title} Operator reset or overwrote this secret, and the key was lost. This update fixes the issue. Now, if the secret is configured after installing {tekton-chains} through the Operator, the secret persists, and it is not overwritten by upgrades.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* In {tekton-chains}, you must define a secret called `signing-secrets` to hold the key used for signing tasks and images. However, before this update, updating the {pipelines-title} Operator reset or overwrote this secret, and the key was lost. This update fixes the issue. Now, if the secret is configured after installing {tekton-chains} through the Operator, the secret persists, and it is not overwritten by upgrades.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.
